---
title: Heinrich "Henry" Schurmann
date: 2023-04-29
excerpt: 1942--2023
published: false
sidebar:
  - image: /assets/images/2023-04-29-heiri-schurmann.webp
  - text: |
      [Obituary page on funeral home website][obit]

      [obit]: <https://www.arbormemorial.ca/preview/highland-scarborough/mr-heinrich-henry-schurmann/102789>
---

Heinrich ("Henry", "Heiri") Eduard Schurmann, was a man with a robust
personality who loved telling stories---he was a masterful storyteller. He told
them with such enthusiasm. It was his way of entertaining, connecting, teaching
and sharing with anyone who would listen, all of the incredible experiences of
his extraordinary life. Whether it was a story about growing up in the Salle
Schulhaus in Lucerne with his parents and two brothers, of being on the rowing
team as a youth, his apprenticeship as a tool and die maker, his adventures all
over continental Africa, immigrating to Canada, the Canadysli Guggemusig,
winning or losing at mah jong, his decades working in the oil and gas industry,
his many trips travelling and delivering medicine to those in need in
Guyana... there were so many. From his stories, you understood his appetite for
adventure, his fascination with culture and people, his love of laughter, his
concern for the world and most of all, his love of connecting with people. His
life revolved around engaging other people and taking an interest in strangers.
He would always make the effort to call up friends and family to catch-up and
see how they were doing. But his favourite people to spend time with were his
"Two Ladies"; his beloved and devoted wife of 57 years, Milly and his daughter,
his "Sweetheart", Monika.

Born in Lucerne, Switzerland, Henry/Heiri passed away on April 20, 2023 at the
age of 80. He was in his favourite chair, at home in North York and passed away
due to cardiac arrest.

In addition to being survived by his wife and daughter, he is also survived by
brothers Klaus (Edith) and Beat (Rita). He will be missed as a cherished
brother in-law, uncle, friend, and colleague.

In memory of Heiri, his family asks that you share his stories, and yours, and
remember his enormous heart and deep laughter always.

Family and friends are invited to the Highland Funeral Home---Scarborough
Chapel on Monday, May 8, 2023 for a Memorial Gathering from 11 a.m.--12 p.m.
Followed by a Memorial Service at 12 p.m.

If desired, memorial donations may be made to the Sunnybrook Health Sciences
Centre or the Kidney Foundation of Canada.
